---
description: >-
  Exploring the complexities, advantages and opportunities for contribution
  measurement in Web3 ecosystems
---

# Contribution measurability complexities, advantages & opportunities

## **Contribution measurability complexities**



**Short vs long term outcomes**

The value and impact generated by contribution efforts are not always obvious. Some contributions can have longer term implications that benefit an ecosystem over time.



**Wide impact potential**

Contribution efforts could help with producing a variety of different outcomes that each could make impact in a number of ways. Contribution efforts could impact an ecosystems functionality, usability and experience or they could impact the wider community in how they think and potentially influence their preferences and how they behave. It will be difficult to predict what positive impact someones contributions will have on a wider ecosystem.



**Contribution variability**

A contributor could make a wide variety of different contributions to generate impact for an ecosystem. Each of these different types of contribution effort could require different approaches for those efforts to be recorded, measured and verified.



**Leadership based contributions**

Some contribution efforts could be focussed on inspiring and aligning the efforts of a group of contributors. These types of contributions can be more difficult to assess the value of these efforts due to the fact that each individual could respond differently to these leadership efforts.



**Social based contributions**

How contributors interact with one another on a social level can have a big impact on the teams rapport and the cohesion and alignment between a group of contributors. Positive contributions to social environments are harder to record and verify accurately yet these contributions could be highly valuable to an ecosystem by making a more welcoming and enjoyable place for people to collaborate and solve complex problems.



**Peer to peer measurement & verification**

Self reported manual contributions and group based social and leadership contributions are all example contribution areas that can benefit from peer to peer attestations to determine what happened in a group working environment and what impact was generated by different peoples contribution efforts. There is a complexity in ensuring that these attestations are legitimate and not purposefully incorrect or biased in an attempt to exploit a system to financially benefit a certain groups of individuals.



## **Advantages of measurable contribution efforts**



**Easier contribution verification**

Logging an individual's contribution efforts makes it easier to verify that a given individual is actually making sufficient contribution effort towards executing different ideas. If contribution outcomes are recorded every month this can make it easier to compare those outcomes with other contributors. The more measurable the outcomes are the easier it will be to identify the weakest performers and the top performers. Support could be provided to contributors that need to improve their performance. If the performance of a contributor doesn’t improve or the individual is purposefully being a bad actor then it would be unlikely that they receive future funding due to the evidence of poor performance shown in their contribution logs.



**Improved decision making**

Measurable contribution logs can help with making it easier for voters to spot the best and worst performers amongst a group of contributors. It can also help with identifying trends in the performance of contributors as a whole or where certain skill sets are missing. This information can help with improving future disbursement decisions about where to allocate more resources and focus.



**Higher self awareness & accountability**

If contributors can easily see their own performance against other contributors they are able to become more aware and self accountable for trying to achieve a similar or higher level of contribution output as the other contributors in the ecosystem.



**Empowers individual contributors**

Being able to demonstrate impactful contribution outcomes is empowering for building a contributors reputation. Competent and high performing contributors that are able to easily demonstrate their capabilities and performance should be able to more easily receive fair compensation for their efforts. Rewarding contributors who are working harder or more effectively than others is an important way that the available incentives can be more effectively aligned with generating impact for the ecosystem. Another way that evidence of contribution outcomes helps to empower the individual is that it provides a public facing record that demonstrates what a contributor has achieved and what skill sets they are competent at. This can make it easier for different teams and projects to verify that a contributor is well suited to help them with their own execution efforts. The easier it is for an individual to prove their ability and competencies the more control and influence they will have on being able to pick the most suitable initiatives for them to work on and help with ensuring that they will get paid fairly for their skill and competency level.



## **Opportunities for Web3 ecosystems**



**Open source contribution data**

Open source contributions can help with creating insightful data that makes it easier to analyse the performance of a contributor or cohort of contributors. Public contribution data can help with identifying skills gaps and areas of improvement that the contributors could work on to become more performant or to generate more impact.



**Self owned contribution logs**

Contributors that have more ownership over their contribution logs can more easily influence and benefit from their own reputation that they build up over time. These contributors would be able to publicly showcase their contribution efforts and the impact they have generated.



**Removed intermediaries**

Web3 ecosystems have the opportunity to make a more democratic and peer reviewed process for assessing performance and impact. Achieving this can help to remove intermediaries such as management and leadership positions that can have an excessive amount of control and influence over determining someone else's value and compensation. Effective contribution measurement can help with creating a more open and free market for individuals to compete in. Contributors self owned contribution data can more easily be used to then influence the compensation they receive and their career trajectory. More self ownership of contribution data can help with preventing individuals or small groups of individuals from being able to unfairly determine someone else’s value.



**Trust based networks**

Verifiable contribution data could be used to create a trust based network that people use to prove someones competency and reliability. Communities could start using this information as a form of identification and a way to trust certain individuals due to the reputation they’ve built and the common connections they share. These networks of provable contribution efforts could lead to new working arrangements being made between contributors based off the trust in these verified contributions.
