---
description: How contribution is often measured in companies and sports
---

# Current landscape

## **Company contribution measurement**

Some companies can have very few processes in place for verifying employee contribution efforts. These companies can often rely on observations made by leadership and management. Observations from leadership and management can be a faster and simpler approach. Smaller companies may use this more often as it can be easier to start with this approach and this could work when there are a limited number of employee contribution efforts to review. Other companies might have very thorough processes in place for identifying and rewarding high performing contributors and impactful contributions. Processes for reviewing contribution efforts and performance can become increasingly more important for larger teams and bigger companies due to the complexity of working out how peoples compensation should change over time and which employees have been the most performant and impactful. If top performers are not adequately recognised and rewarded there is a risk they simply move to another company. The problem with making observations about someone's contribution efforts is it requires a higher amount of trust in the management and leadership's decision making. These observations ultimately could determine what employees are paid based on their contribution efforts. Observations can come at the expense of the accuracy in measuring each person's contribution efforts and can introduce the risk that some employees do not get compensated fairly for their performance or that the leadership is biased towards certain individuals over others. Companies that do introduce processes for performance measurement will use these processes to measure the contribution efforts of each employee and then reward high performing employees. Rewarding top performers could come in the form of job promotions or salary increases based on skill based pay bands. It could also include bonuses or stock options. Companies with more structure and process could be more accurate with grouping employees into different skill levels and performance thresholds however these processes can also be limiting for employees who exceed those expectations and their performance is not well captured in a more rigid process.



**Issues with company contribution measurement**

* **Easier exploitation** - For companies that use more trust in the leadership instead of a formal process for measuring performance and contribution efforts there is an increased risk that employees could be exploited for their skills and performance as they would be relying on another person's judgement rather than a defined performance process. Leadership could try to retain more revenue for the business or inaccurately review someone's performance and contributions. Employees might need to dispute the leadership's judgement if they felt like they deserved more compensation due to their performance.
* **Lack of measurement accuracy** - Companies that haven’t implemented any process for measuring and verifying employee contribution efforts and performance have an increased risk of lower accuracy around compensation decisions due to a lack of awareness and understanding of each person's contributions and performance. A lack of process means the company would be relying heavily on observational efforts and outcomes. These observations could lack the full information and context needed to know what has actually happened.
* **Lack of public and self owned contribution logs** - Contribution efforts that aren’t publicly recorded and owned by the employees mean there is limited value in these logs for the employees. Employees could have benefited from being able to prove that they have made certain contributions for the business that they could then showcase to others across the company or even to other external companies. One obvious reason that companies would not inherently want this openness of competencies and performance is because it would increase the potential risk that other companies try to pouch their top performing employees.
* **Separate process for leadership and management** - Some companies might not apply the same verification process for contributions and performance on management and leadership as they do with employees. This can be unfair for employees as each person's contributions to the company are not being treated equally in terms of how they are recorded, measured and verified. A lack of equal process can lead to inaccurate or unfair compensation outcomes. Employees could have been far more performant and impactful than the leadership roles yet the employees might not receive fair recognition and compensation for those contribution efforts.
* **Rigid incentive process** - Companies that do have a thorough process for measuring and verifying contribution efforts have the risk that their process could be overly rigid. Some employees may exceed the value and expectations of defined compensation thresholds or generate impact in ways that aren’t well accounted for in the verification process. Making a process that is flexible enough to handle different outcomes and contribution efforts would be an important part of rewarding the top performers fairly and aligning the incentives with the employees who have been the most performant and impactful.



## **Professional sports contribution measurement**

Professional sports can provide a useful comparison to company environments due to how contribution efforts are measured. Sports are inherently far more easy to measure than many employee roles found in company environments. Sports have a clear objective in what efforts often help with generating a winning outcome. Individuals involved in these sports can have their contribution efforts measured accurately to determine how they contributed towards generating a winning outcome. Football is a great example to consider. Each team member's contributions can be measured such as how long they have the ball, the number of passes, the number of shots and shots on target, the number of ball interceptions and then many more different metrics. These numerical measurements can then be paired up with visually recorded data about how these players move around the pitch, how good their awareness is of team mates and competing players and how they interact and collaborate with other players on the pitch. The value in all of these measurements is that these players can be more easily grouped based on their performance. Measured performance can then lead to an increase in compensation for the top performers. Sports athletes, especially those in team sports, benefit from their contribution measurements being fully public and widely accessible as now every other team and anyone else in the world can easily verify someone's performance and the impact they made whilst playing for a team.



**Top performing contributors**

Top performing sports athletes are often paid a meaningful amount more than other athletes. For individual sports the contribution measurement is not as valuable as team environments as the individual is responsible entirely for any wins or losses. Their contribution efforts don’t need to be measured and compared with other team members. For team sports, contribution measurement is far more valuable and important. If a team wins it is beneficial to understand which players have been the most performant and effective at helping that team win. Measuring a players contribution efforts effectively will help with identifying the most impactful players. These players can then be increasingly compensated over time for high performance.



## Comparisons between sports teams and company environments



**Sports teams have more open data that is highly measurable**

Sports are inherently easier to measure numerically and visually compared to common company roles such as software development, product management, design and marketing. Roles that exist in companies do not have the same simple objective that sports do. Employees can generate impact in a multitude of ways and also can make a wide range of contributions that could have varying implications over the short term and long term. However the difference in the ease of contribution measurability does not diminish the fact that increasing contribution measurability can be highly beneficial for more accurately rewarding the most performant and impactful contributors. Increasing the contribution measurability in any environment will help with more effectively identifying and rewarding the top performers. The less effective a company is at measuring the contribution efforts of employees the more there is a risk of inaccurate compensation outcomes and creating environments where leadership and management could more easily make unfair or biassed compensation decisions.



**Sports teams often don’t need to do as much skill and competency verification**

Sports player contributions are often accurately recorded and publicly available. This makes it easier for other teams and people across the world to understand and compare the value of each player. This access to reliable and verifiable information means teams can share offers to different team players with more confidence that they know what that player's potential value could be for their own team. In company settings the value of an employee is not as publicly shared to a public audience. A company is not incentivised to make others aware of their top performers. Employees will often have to apply to other companies and prove their skills and competencies each time they do this. There are some situations where companies might decide to not do much skill and competency verification. Employees who have worked at FAANG companies can often find it easier to get a job elsewhere due to the association with the large tech company. Other companies are aware of the more difficult interview processes that these people must have gone through to be employed and can use that information as a proxy to verify that someone has a certain skill level and competency. These examples help to highlight the potential value of public information for contributors as an effective way to showcase their contribution history so that other teams can verify where they have made contributions.



**Sports teams can be more reliable and effective for top performers**

Companies are not incentivised to share how good their employees are publicly as then competing companies would try to poach the top performers to work in their own organisation. This isn’t a good outcome for the employee as they might be worth much more than they are being paid. Top performers benefit from others being able to easily identify that they are highly performant and effective. Public measurement of contribution efforts can help with creating an effective environment for top performers to thrive as everyone becomes aware of how good they are. Top performing sports team players receive the benefits from their contribution efforts being made public and easily accessible. In sports environments these players can be measured and reviewed by other teams much more easily. Accessible information about top performers helps to give them more ability to work with the teams and people they want to work with. For company environments this could mean that top performers could be able to more easily work on the ideas they are most interested in. Making this information more public also helps to create a more open and competitive market for contributors as everyone can now see the value of each individual. This is good for top performing contributors as it can help to minimise the influence of other people deciding what their value is. Instead these top performing contributors can now showcase and verify their value themselves to others.



## Comparisons between sports teams and Web3 ecosystems



**Web3 ecosystems also have open data due to open source software**

Web3 ecosystems highly benefit from developing open source software. If projects were predominantly open source the contributors in these projects could have their contribution efforts recorded and those contribution logs could be made public by default. This is a good outcome for contributors as now the value of their contributions can be more easily recorded and showcased to anyone else in the ecosystem and wider industry. This is an improvement over existing company environments where contribution data is often private and not as publicly accessible. Contributors could now more easily build up a public and global reputation based on their contribution efforts and be paid more accurately based on their actual performance and the impact they generate. This openness of data can help to create an environment that is similar to team sports. Contributions would be public and top performing talent should benefit from being more easily identified and compensated for their skills and competencies.



**Web3 ecosystems can make it easier for contributors to build a public reputation**

Sports team players benefit from their contribution history being publicly available and comparable over time. It becomes easier to see how the performance and impact of a player increases over time. Web3 ecosystems could benefit from this same environment if many projects are open source and the contribution history can be made publicly available. Contributors in Web3 ecosystems can now build up a reputation based on the contribution logs that get recorded that can demonstrate their performance and impact they generate. This reputation can help to empower contributors and make it easier for them to be paid fairly based on their performance and the value of their contributions.
